{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green77\blue204;\red244\green246\blue249;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1176\c40000\c83922;\cssrgb\c96471\c97255\c98039;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14080\viewh11280\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Project Name : 
\b \ul Face Manager
\b0 \ulnone \
Groupe: 234\
\
\ul The Project:\ulnone The concept of this project is to know with a picture of one\'92s face, if this person does or does not have a beard. In addition, you are able to add many cool accessories on the picture, such as hats, glasses, etc\'85 We use open CV library for the project.\
\
\ul Members and their tasks :\ulnone \
- Justin Hines : Responsible for the addition of accessories on the picture.\
\
-  Alexis KOJIC ( international student France) : Beard, eye and face recognition.\
\
- Kyle Cazares : Normally responsible for the menu for the user. To be able to use beard recognition and add accessories all in one menu. BUT He never WORK ( code ). We had no news during the entire project after trying to reach him many times. So we don\'92t have a menu for the project! You need to run any program in terminal.\
\
\
\ul For run: \ulnone \
Because no menu from Kyle. For beard recognition you need to run in your terminal \'ab\'a0reconnaissance.py\'a0\'bb ( python reconnaissance.py) it work with a picture example of a men with beard. You need to have openCv library and Python2.\
\
For hat athing.py\
\
\
\

\b Finally we combine the project in 1 file. Run it \'ab\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Private-Shorty/CST205-Group234-Project2/blob/master/CST205_Project2.py"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 CST205_Project2.py}}
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'a0\'bb and follow instruction.	\

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Alexis KOJIC Beard Recognition :\ulnone \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
This program is able to recognize if a person have a beard.\
It took a lot of work, because with open cv you can recognize Face, eye and many other things but not beard.\
\
I went to search openCv library to find the files allowing the recognition of the face and eyes.\
This file are \'ab\'a0haarcascade_eye.xml\'a0\'bb and \'ab\'a0haarcascade_frontalface_default.xml\'a0\'bb in installation repository opencv. I have study a lot this 2 files to realize my file ! \
So I have create my file for recognize beard is name : \'ab\'a0 haarcascade_barbe.xml\'a0\'bb\
To recognize a beard I have use the technic with different color of pixel on the lower part of the face. So we use recognition of face and we use the lower part of this recognition. \
To realize that, I have read lot of document on opencv website.\
\
The opencv_createsamples and opencv_haartraining commands were used. If opencv_haartraining happens successfully then a file haarcascade.xml is produced.\
\
So I started with about 7 positive images (all containing beards) and 12 negative images (not containing them). \
\
With that, it works well. But if you would like a better result it is advisable to work with hundreds or even thousands of images\
\
As a result, I have spent 14 hours myself alone to create this file and have first good result. \
D\'e9velopper on Ubuntu\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul Justin Hines accessories:\ulnone \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Normally his part of the project was to work on and add accessories on picture (such as sunglasses, hats etc). But he just do one hat. I don\'92t understand why?! \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul Kyle Cazares :\ulnone \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Normally his part of the project was to build a menu for user but he did no work on the project at all. We don\'92t have answer when we call him and he has not been present in class for one week. \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul Conclusion of Alexis :\ulnone \
I have spend many hour on this project, I kept my commitments making a functional beard detection which was my part of the project.\
But unfortunately, this is not the case for the other group member\'85 I hope that I will not penalize because of them. I know that there is marks for communication within the group members and myself for the project, but I have tried to reach of to them many times (calling Kyle many times and having no response)\
\
\
Thanks to this project I have install ubuntu for the first time on virtual machine and Learn how it work ! I have learn many things about Xml files and how to use openCv library \
\
\
GitHub link : {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/Private-Shorty/CST205-Group234-Project2"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/Private-Shorty/CST205-Group234-Project2}}\
\
\
Trello : {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/b/T64PzQB1/project-2"}}{\fldrslt https://trello.com/b/T64PzQB1/project-2}}\
\
Written: by Alexis KOJIC\
-Sorry for my bad English\
\
\
\
}